1. What is the main difference between String and StringBuilder?
2. What is the main difference between String and StringBuffer ?
3. Other than immutability and mutability is there any other difference between
String and StringBuffer ?
In String .equals( ) method meant for content comparison where as in
StringBuffer meant for reference comparision .
4. What is the meaning of immutability and mutability?
5. Explain immutability and mutability with an example?
6. What is SCP?
A specially designed memory area for the String literals/objects .
7. What is the advantage of SCP?
Instead of creating a separate object for every requirement we can create only
one object and we can reuse same object for every requirement. This approach
improves performance and memory utilization.
8. What is the disadvantage of SCP?
In SCP as several references pointing to the same object by using one reference if
we are performing any changes the remaining references will be inflected. To
prevent this compulsory String objects should be immutable. That is
immutability is the disadvantage of SCP.
9. Why SCP like concept available only for the String but not for the StringBuffer?
As String object is the most commonly used object sun people provided a
specially designed memory area like SCP to improve memory utilization and
performance.
But StringBuffer object is not commonly used object hence specially designed
memory area is not at all required.
10. Why String objects are immutable where as StringBuffer objects are mutable?
In the case of String as several references pointing to the same object, by using
one reference if we are allowed perform the change the remaining references will
be impacted. To prevent this once we created a String object we can't perform
any change in the existing object that is immutability is only due to SCP.
But in the case of StringBuffer for every requirement we are creating a separate
object will be created by using one reference if we are performing any change in
the object the remaining references won't be impacted hence immutability
concept is not require for the StringBuffer.
11. Similar to String objects any other objects are immutable in java?
In addition to String objects , all wrapper objects are immutable in java.
12. Is it possible to create our own mutable class?
Yes.
13. Explain the process of creating our own immutable class with an example?
14. What is the difference between final and immutability?
15. What is interning of String objects?
